December PM
* 12/01/PM

"O that men would praise the Lord for His goodness, and for His
wonderful works to the children of men."
                                                  -- Psalm 107:8

   If we complained less, and praised more, we should be 
happier, and God would be more glorified. Let us daily praise
God for _common mercies_--common as we frequently call them, and
yet so priceless, that when deprived of them we are ready to
perish. Let us bless God for the eyes with which we behold the
sun, for the health and strength to walk abroad, for the bread
we eat, for the raiment we wear. Let us praise Him that we are
not cast out among the hopeless, or confined amongst the guilty;
let us thank Him for liberty, for friends, for family
associations and comforts; let us praise Him, in fact, for
everything which we receive from His bounteous hand, for we
deserve little, and yet are most plenteously endowed. But,
beloved, the sweetest and the loudest note in our songs of
praise should be of _redeeming love_. God's redeeming acts
towards His chosen are for ever the favourite themes of their
praise. If we know what redemption means, let us not withhold
our sonnets of thanksgiving. We have been redeemed from the
power of our corruptions, uplifted from the depth of sin in
which we were naturally plunged. We have been led to the cross
of Christ--our shackles of guilt have been broken off; we are no
longer slaves, but children of the living God, and can antedate
the period when we shall be presented before the throne without
spot or wrinkle or any such thing. Even now by faith we wave the
palm-branch and wrap ourselves about with the fair linen which
is to be our everlasting array, and shall we not unceasingly
give thanks to the Lord our Redeemer? Child of God, canst thou
be silent? Awake, awake, ye heritors of glory, and lead your
captivity captive, as ye cry with David, "Bless the Lord, O my
soul: and all that is within me, bless His holy name." Let the
new month begin with new songs.

* 12/02/PM

"Behold, all is vanity."
                                             --Ecclesiastes 1:14

   Nothing can satisfy the entire man but the Lord's love and 
the Lord's own self. Saints have tried to anchor in other
roadsteads, but they have been driven out of such fatal refuges.
Solomon, the wisest of men, was permitted to make experiments
for us all, and to do for us what we must not dare to do for
ourselves. Here is his testimony in his own words: "So I was
great, and increased more than all that were before me in
Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me. And whatsoever mine
eyes desired I kept not from them, I withheld not my heart from
any joy; for my heart rejoiced in all my labour: and this was my
portion of all my labour. Then I looked on all the works that my
hands had wrought, and on the labour that I had laboured to do:
and, behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there
was no profit under the sun." "Vanity of vanities, all is
vanity." What! the whole of it vanity? O favoured monarch, is
there nothing in all thy wealth? Nothing in that wide dominion
reaching from the river even to the sea? Nothing in Palmyra's
glorious palaces? Nothing in the house of the forest of Lebanon?
In all thy music and dancing, and wine and luxury, is there
nothing? "Nothing," he says, "but weariness of spirit." This was
his verdict when he had trodden the whole round of pleasure. To
embrace our Lord Jesus, to dwell in His love, and be fully
assured of union with Him--this is all in all. Dear reader, you
need not try other forms of life in order to see whether they
are better than the Christian's: if you roam the world around,
you will see no sights like a sight of the Saviour's face; if
you could have all the comforts of life, if you lost your
Saviour, you would be wretched; but if you win Christ, then
should you rot in a dungeon, you would find it a paradise;
should you live in obscurity, or die with famine, you will yet
be satisfied with favour and full of the goodness of the Lord.

* 12/03/PM

"The Lord mighty in battle."
                                                    --Psalm 24:8

   Well may our God be glorious in the eyes of His people, 
seeing that He has wrought such wonders for them, in them, and
by them. _For them_, the Lord Jesus upon Calvary routed every
foe, breaking all the weapons of the enemy in pieces by His
finished work of satisfactory obedience; by His triumphant
resurrection and ascension He completely overturned the hopes of
hell, leading captivity captive, making a show of our enemies
openly, triumphing over them by His cross. Every arrow of guilt
which Satan might have shot at us is broken, for who can lay
anything to the charge of God's elect? Vain are the sharp swords
of infernal malice, and the perpetual battles of the serpent's
seed, for in the midst of the church the lame take the prey, and
the feeblest warriors are crowned.

   The saved may well adore their Lord for His conquests _in 
them_, since the arrows of their natural hatred are snapped, and
the weapons of their rebellion broken. What victories has grace
won in our evil hearts! How glorious is Jesus when the will is
subdued, and sin dethroned! As for our remaining corruptions,
they shall sustain an equally sure defeat, and every temptation,
and doubt, and fear, shall be utterly destroyed. In the Salem of
our peaceful hearts, the name of Jesus is great beyond compare:
He has won our love, and He shall wear it. Even thus securely
may we look for victories _by us_. We are more than conquerors
through Him that loved us. We shall cast down the powers of
darkness which are in the world, by our faith, and zeal, and
holiness; we shall win sinners to Jesus, we shall overturn false
systems, we shall convert nations, for God is with us, and none
shall stand before us. This evening let the Christian warrior
chant the war song, and prepare for to-morrow's fight. Greater
is He that is in us than he that is in the world.

* 12/04/PM

"Even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the
adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body."
                                                   --Romans 8:23

   This groaning is universal among the saints: to a greater or 
less extent we all feel it. It is not the groan of murmuring or
complaint: it is rather the note of desire than of distress.
Having received an earnest, we desire the whole of our portion;
we are sighing that our entire manhood, in its trinity of
spirit, soul, and body, may be set free from the last vestige of
the fall; we long to put off corruption, weakness, and
dishonour, and to wrap ourselves in incorruption, in
immortality, in glory, in the spiritual body which the Lord
Jesus will bestow upon His people. We long for the manifestation
of our adoption as the children of God. "We groan," but it is
"_within ourselves_." It is not the hypocrite's groan, by which
he would make men believe that he is a saint because he is
wretched. Our sighs are sacred things, too hallowed for us to
tell abroad. We keep our longings to our Lord alone. Then the
apostle says we are "_waiting_," by which we learn that we are
not to be petulant, like Jonah or Elijah, when they said, "Let
me die"; nor are we to whimper and sigh for the end of life
because we are tired of work, nor wish to escape from our
present sufferings till the will of the Lord is done. We are to
groan for glorification, but we are to wait patiently for it,
knowing that what the Lord appoints is best. Waiting implies
being ready. We are to stand at the door expecting the Beloved
to open it and take us away to Himself. This "groaning" is a
test. You may judge of a man by what he groans after. Some men
groan after wealth--they worship Mammon; some groan continually
under the troubles of life--they are merely impatient; but the
man who sighs after God, who is uneasy till he is made like
Christ, that is the blessed man. May God help us to groan for
the coming of the Lord, and the resurrection which He will bring
to us.

* 12/05/PM

"And the Lord shewed me four carpenters."
                                                --Zechariah 1:20

   In the vision described in this chapter, the prophet saw four 
terrible horns. They were pushing this way and that way, dashing
down the strongest and the mightiest; and the prophet asked,
"What are these?" The answer was, "These are the horns which
have scattered Israel." He saw before him a representation of
those powers which had oppressed the church of God. There were
four horns; for the church is attacked from all quarters. Well
might the prophet have felt dismayed; but on a sudden there
appeared before him _four carpenters_. He asked, "What shall
these do?" These are the men whom God hath found to break those
horns in pieces. _God will always find men for His work_, and He
will find them at the right time. The prophet did not see the
carpenters _first_, when there was nothing to do, but first the
"horns," and then the "carpenters." Moreover, the Lord finds
_enough men_. He did not find three carpenters, but _four_;
there were four horns, and there must be four workmen. God finds
_the right men_; not four men with pens to write; not four
architects to draw plans; but four carpenters to do rough work.
Rest assured, you who tremble for the ark of God, that when the
"horns" grow troublesome, the "carpenters" will be found. You
need not fret concerning the weakness of the church of God at
any moment; there may be growing up in obscurity the valiant
reformer who will shake the nations: Chrysostoms may come forth
from our Ragged Schools, and Augustines from the thickest
darkness of London's poverty. The Lord knows where to find His
servants. He hath in ambush a multitude of mighty men, and at
His word they shall start up to the battle; "for the battle is
the Lord's," and He shall get to Himself the victory. Let us
abide faithful to Christ, and He, in the right time, will raise
up for us a defence, whether it be in the day of our personal
need, or in the season of peril to His Church.

* 12/06/PM

"Girt about the paps with a golden girdle."
                                               --Revelation 1:13

   One like unto the Son of Man" appeared to John in Patmos, and
the beloved disciple marked that He wore a girdle of gold. _A
girdle_, for Jesus never was ungirt while upon earth, but stood
always ready for service, and now before the eternal throne He
stays not is holy ministry, but as a priest is girt about with
"the curious girdle of the ephod." Well it is for us that He has
not ceased to fulfil His offices of love for us, since this is
one of our choicest safeguards that He ever liveth to make
intercession for us. Jesus is never an idler; His garments are
never loose as though His offices were ended; He diligently
carries on the cause of His people. _A golden girdle_, to
manifest the superiority of His service, the royalty of His
person, the dignity of His state, the glory of His reward. No
longer does He cry out of the dust, but He pleads with
authority, a King as well as a Priest. Safe enough is our cause
in the hands of our enthroned Melchisedek.

   Our Lord presents all His people with an example. We must 
never unbind our girdles. This is not the time for lying down at
ease, it is the season of service and warfare. We need to bind
the girdle of truth more and more tightly around our loins. It
is a golden girdle, and so will be our richest ornament, and we
greatly need it, for a heart that is not well braced up with the
truth as it is in Jesus, and with the fidelity which is wrought
of the Spirit, will be easily entangled with the things of this
life, and tripped up by the snares of temptation. It is in vain
that we possess the Scriptures unless we bind them around us
like a girdle, surrounding our entire nature, keeping each part
of our character in order, and giving compactness to our whole
man. If in heaven Jesus unbinds not the girdle, much less may we
upon earth. Stand, therefore, having your loins girt about with
truth.

* 12/07/PM

"I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save
some."
                                            --1 Corinthians 9:22

   Paul's great object was not merely to instruct and to 
improve, but to save. Anything short of this would have
disappointed him; he would have men renewed in heart, forgiven,
sanctified, in fact, saved. Have our Christian labours been
aimed at anything below this great point? Then let us amend our
ways, for of what avail will it be at the last great day to have
taught and moralized men if they appear before God unsaved?
Blood-red will our skirts be if through life we have sought
inferior objects, and forgotten that men needed to be saved.
Paul knew the ruin of man's natural state, and did not try to
educate him, but to save him; he saw men sinking to hell, and
did not talk of refining them, but of saving from the wrath to
come. To compass their salvation, he gave himself up with
untiring zeal to telling abroad the gospel, to warning and
beseeching men to be reconciled to God. His prayers were
importunate and his labours incessant. To save souls was his
consuming passion, his ambition, his calling. He became a
servant to all men, toiling for his race, feeling a woe within
him if he preached not the gospel. He laid aside his
preferences to prevent prejudice; he submitted his will in
things indifferent, and if men would but receive the gospel, he
raised no questions about forms or ceremonies: the gospel was
the one all-important business with him. If he might save some
he would be content. This was the crown for which he strove, the
sole and sufficient reward of all his labours and self-denials.
Dear reader, have you and I lived to win souls at this noble
rate? Are we possessed with the same all-absorbing desire? If
not, why not? Jesus died for sinners, cannot we live for them?
Where is our tenderness? Where our love to Christ, if we seek
not His honour in the salvation of men? O that the Lord would
saturate us through and through with an undying zeal for the
souls of men.

* 12/08/PM

"Thou, O God, hast prepared of Thy goodness for the poor."
                                                   --Psalm 68:10

   All God's gifts are prepared gifts laid up in store for wants 
foreseen. He anticipates our needs; and out of the fulness which
He has treasured up in Christ Jesus, He provides of His goodness
for the poor. You may trust Him for all the necessities that can
occur, for He has infallibly foreknown every one of them. He can
say of us in all conditions, "I knew that thou wouldst be this
and that." A man goes a journey across the desert, and when he
has made a day's advance, and pitched his tent, he discovers
that he wants many comforts and necessaries which he has not
brought in his baggage. "Ah!" says he, "I did not foresee this:
if I had this journey to go again, I should bring these things
with me, so necessary to my comfort." But God has marked with
prescient eye all the requirements of His poor wandering
children, and when those needs occur, supplies are ready. It is
goodness which He has prepared for the poor in heart, goodness
and goodness only. "My grace is sufficient for thee." "As thy
days, so shall thy strength be."

   Reader, is your heart heavy this evening? God knew it would 
be; the comfort which your heart wants is treasured in the sweet
assurance of the text. You are poor and needy, but He has
thought upon you, and has the exact blessing which you require
in store for you. Plead the promise, believe it and obtain its
fulfillment. Do you feel that you never were so consciously vile
as you are now? Behold, the crimson fountain is open still, with
all its former efficacy, to wash your sin away. Never shall you
come into such a position that Christ cannot aid you. No pinch
shall ever arrive in your spiritual affairs in which Jesus
Christ shall not be equal to the emergency, for your history has
all been foreknown and provided for in Jesus.

* 12/09/PM

"My people shall dwell in quiet resting places."
                                                  --Isaiah 32:18

   Peace and rest belong not to the unregenerate, they are the 
peculiar possession of the Lord's people, and of them only. The
God of Peace gives perfect peace to those whose hearts are
staye