February AM
* 02/01/AM

"They shall sing in the ways of the Lord."
                                                   --Psalm 138:5

   The time when Christians begin to sing in the ways of the 
Lord is when they first lose their burden at the foot of the
Cross. Not even the songs of the angels seem so sweet as the
first song of rapture which gushes from the inmost soul of the
forgiven child of God. You know how John Bunyan describes it. He
says when poor Pilgrim lost his burden at the Cross, he gave
three great leaps, and went on his way singing--

        "Blest Cross! blest Sepulchre! blest rather be
        The Man that there was put to shame for me!"

Believer, do you recollect the day when _your_ fetters fell off?
Do you remember the place when Jesus met you, and said, "I have
loved thee with an everlasting love; I have blotted out as a
cloud thy transgressions, and as a thick cloud thy sins; they
shall not be mentioned against thee any more for ever." Oh! what
a sweet season is that when Jesus takes away the pain of sin.
When the Lord first pardoned my sin, I was so joyous that I
could scarce refrain from dancing. I thought on my road home
from the house where I had been set at liberty, that I must tell
the stones in the street the story of my deliverance. So full
was my soul of joy, that I wanted to tell every snow-flake that
was falling from heaven of the wondrous love of Jesus, who had
blotted out the sins of one of the chief of rebels. But it is
not only at the commencement of the Christian life that
believers have reason for song; as long as they live they
discover cause to sing in the ways of the Lord, and their
experience of His constant lovingkindness leads them to say, "I
will bless the Lord at all times: His praise shall continually
be in my mouth." See to it, brother, that thou magnifiest the
Lord _this day_.

             "Long as we tread this desert land,
             New mercies shall new songs demand."

* 02/02/AM

"Without the shedding of blood is no remission."
                                                  --Hebrews 9:22

   This is the voice of unalterable truth. In none of the Jewish 
ceremonies were sins, even typically, removed without blood-
shedding. In no case, by no means can sin be pardoned without
atonement. It is clear, then, that there is no hope for me out
of Christ; for there is no other blood-shedding which is worth a
thought as an atonement for sin. Am I, then, believing in Him?
Is the blood of His atonement truly applied to my soul? All men
are on a level as to their need of Him. If we be never so moral,
generous, amiable, or patriotic, the rule will not be altered to
make an exception for us. Sin will yield to nothing less potent
than the blood of Him whom God hath set forth as a propitiation.
What a blessing that there is the one way of pardon! Why should
we seek another?

   Persons of merely formal religion cannot understand how we 
can rejoice that all our sins are forgiven us for Christ's sake.
Their works, and prayers, and ceremonies, give them very poor
comfort; and well may they be uneasy, for they are neglecting
the one great salvation, and endeavouring to get remission
without blood. My soul, sit down, and behold the justice of God
as bound to punish sin; see that punishment all executed upon
thy Lord Jesus, and fall down in humble joy, and kiss the dear
feet of Him whose blood has made atonement for thee. It is in
vain when conscience is aroused to fly to feelings and evidences
for comfort: this is a habit which we learned in the Egypt of
our legal bondage. The only restorative for a guilty conscience
is a sight of Jesus suffering on the cross. "The blood is the
life thereof," says the Levitical law, and let us rest assured
that it is the life of faith and joy and every other holy grace.

              "Oh! how sweet to view the flowing
              Of my Saviour's precious blood;
              With divine assurance knowing
              He has made my peace with God."

* 02/03/AM

"Therefore, brethren, we are debtors."
                                                   --Romans 8:12

   As God's creatures, we are all debtors to Him: to obey Him 
with all our body, and soul, and strength. Having broken His
commandments, as we all have, we are debtors to His justice, and
we owe to Him a vast amount which we are not able to pay. But of
the _Christian_ it can be said that he does not owe God's
_justice_ anything, for Christ has paid the debt His people
owed; for this reason the believer owes the more to _love_. I am
a debtor to God's grace and forgiving mercy; but I am no debtor
to His justice, for He will never accuse me of a debt already
paid. Christ said, "It is finished!" and by that He meant, that
whatever His people owed was wiped away for ever from the book
of remembrance. Christ, to the uttermost, has satisfied divine
justice; the account is settled; the handwriting is nailed to
the cross; the receipt is given, and we are debtors to God's
justice no longer. But then, because we are not debtors to our
Lord in that sense, we become ten times more debtors to God than
we should have been otherwise. Christian, pause and ponder for a
moment. What a debtor thou art to divine _sovereignty_! How
much thou owest to His disinterested love, for He gave His own
Son that He might die for thee. Consider how much you owe to His
forgiving _grace_, that after ten thousand affronts He loves you
as infinitely as ever. Consider what you owe to His _power_; how
He has raised you from your death in sin; how He has preserved
your spiritual life; how He has kept you from falling; and how,
though a thousand enemies have beset your path, you have been
able to hold on your way. Consider what you owe to His
_immutability_. Though you have changed a thousand times, He
has not changed once. Thou art as deep in debt as thou canst be
to every attribute of God. To God thou owest thyself, and all
thou hast--yield thyself as a living sacrifice, it is but thy
reasonable service.

* 02/04/AM

"The love of the Lord."
                                                     --Hosea 3:1

   Believer, _look back_ through all thine experience, and
think of the way whereby the Lord thy God has led thee in the
wilderness, and how He hath fed and clothed thee every day--how
He hath borne with thine ill manners--how He hath put up with
all thy murmurings, and all thy longings after the flesh-pots of
Egypt--how He has opened the rock to supply thee, and fed thee
with manna that came down from heaven. Think of how His grace
has been sufficient for thee in all thy troubles--how His blood
has been a pardon to thee in all thy sins--how His rod and His
staff have comforted thee. When thou hast thus looked back upon
the love of the Lord, then let faith survey His love _in the
future_, for remember that Christ's covenant and blood have
something more in them than the _past_. He who has loved thee
and pardoned thee, shall never cease to love and pardon. He is
Alpha, and He shall be Omega also: He is first, and He shall be
_last_. Therefore, bethink thee, when thou shalt pass through
the valley of the shadow of death, thou needest fear no evil,
for He is with thee. When thou shalt stand in the cold floods of
Jordan, thou needest not fear, for death cannot separate thee
from His love; and when thou shalt come into the mysteries of
eternity thou needest not tremble, "For I am persuaded, that
neither death; nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor
powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor
depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from
the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord." Now, soul,
is not thy love refreshed? Does not this make thee love Jesus?
Doth not a flight through illimitable plains of the ether of
love inflame thy heart and compel thee to delight thyself in the
Lord thy God? Surely as we meditate on "the love of the Lord,"
our hearts burn within us, and we long to love Him more.

* 02/05/AM

"The Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world."
                                                   --1 John 4:14

   It is a sweet thought that Jesus Christ 