October PM
* 10/01/PM

"He will give grace and glory."
                                                   --Psalm 84:11

   Bounteous is Jehovah in His nature; to give is His delight. 
His gifts are beyond measure precious, and are as freely given
as the light of the sun. He gives grace to His elect because He
wills it, to His redeemed because of His covenant, to the called
because of His promise, to believers because they seek it, to
sinners because they need it. He gives grace abundantly,
seasonably, constantly, readily, sovereignly; doubly enhancing
the value of the boon by the manner of its bestowal. Grace in
all its forms He freely renders to His people: comforting,
preserving, sanctifying, directing, instructing, assisting
grace, He generously pours into their souls without ceasing, and
He always will do so, whatever may occur. Sickness may befall,
but the Lord will give grace; poverty may happen to us, but
grace will surely be afforded; death must cone but grace will
light a candle at the darkest hour. Reader, how blessed it is as
years roll round, and the leaves begin again to fall, to enjoy
such an unfading promise as this, "The Lord will give grace."

   The little conjunction "_and_" in this verse is a diamond 
rivet binding the present with the future: grace and glory
always go together. God has married them, and none can divorce
them. The Lord will never deny a soul glory to whom He has
freely given to live upon His grace; indeed, glory is nothing
more than grace in its Sabbath dress, grace in full bloom, grace
like autumn fruit, mellow and perfected. How soon we may have
glory none can tell! It may be before this month of October has
run out we shall see the Holy City; but be the interval longer
or shorter, we shall be glorified ere long. Glory, the glory of
heaven, the glory of eternity, the glory of Jesus, the glory of
the Father, the Lord will surely give to His chosen. Oh, rare
promise of a faithful God!

           Two golden links of one celestial chain:
           Who owneth grace shall surely glory gain.

* 10/02/PM

"A man greatly beloved."
                                                  --Daniel 10:11

   Child of God, do you hesitate to appropriate this title? Ah!
has your unbelief made you forget that you are greatly beloved
too? Must you not have been greatly beloved, to have been bought
with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish
and without spot? When God smote His only begotten Son for you,
what was this but being greatly beloved? You lived in sin, and
rioted in it, must you not have been greatly beloved for God to
have borne so patiently with you? You were called by grace and
led to a Saviour, and made a child of God and an heir of heaven.
All this proves, does it not, a very great and superabounding
love? Since that time, whether your path has been rough with
troubles, or smooth with mercies, it has been full of proofs
that you are a man greatly beloved. If the Lord has chastened
you, yet not in anger; if He has made you poor, yet in grace you
have been rich. The more unworthy you feel yourself to be, the
more evidence have you that nothing but unspeakable love could
have led the Lord Jesus to save such a soul as yours. The more
demerit you feel, the clearer is the display of the abounding
love of God in having chosen you, and called you, and made you
an heir of bliss. Now, if there be such love between God and us
let us live in the influence and sweetness of it, and use the
privilege of our position. Do not let us approach our Lord as
though we were strangers, or as though He were unwilling to hear
us--for we are greatly beloved by our loving Father. "He that
spared not His own Son, but delivered Him up for us all, how
shall He not with Him also freely give us all things?" Come
boldly, O believer, for despite the whisperings of Satan and the
doubtings of thine own heart, thou art greatly beloved. Meditate
on the exceeding greatness and faithfulness of divine love this
evening, and so go to thy bed in peace.

* 10/03/PM


"He Himself hath suffered being tempted."
                                                  --Hebrews 2:18

   It is a common-place thought, and yet it tastes like nectar 
to the weary heart--Jesus I was tempted as I am. You have heard
that truth many times: have you grasped it? He was tempted to
the very same sins into which we fall. Do not dissociate Jesus
from our common manhood. It is a dark room which you are going
through, but Jesus went through it before. It is a sharp fight
which you are waging, but Jesus has stood foot to foot with the
same enemy. Let us be of good cheer, Christ has borne the load
before us, and the blood-stained footsteps of the King of glory
may be seen along the road which we traverse at this hour. There
is something sweeter yet--Jesus was tempted, but Jesus never
sinned. Then, my soul, it is not needful for thee to sin, for
Jesus was a man, and if one man endured these temptations and
sinned not, then in His power His members may also cease from
sin. Some beginners in the divine life think that they cannot be
tempted without sinning, but they mistake; there is no sin in
_being tempted_, but there _is_ sin in _yielding to temptation_.
Herein is comfort for the sorely tempted ones. There is still
more to encourage them if they reflect that the Lord Jesus,
though tempted, gloriously triumphed, and as He overcame, so
surely shall His followers also, for Jesus is the representative
man for His people; the Head has triumphed, and the members
share in the victory. Fears are needless, for Christ is with us,
armed for our defence. Our place of safety is the bosom of the
Saviour. Perhaps we are tempted just now, in order to drive us
nearer to Him. Blessed be any wind that blows us into the port
of our Saviour's love! Happy wounds, which make us seek the
beloved Physician. Ye tempted ones, come to your tempted
Saviour, for He can be touched with a feeling of your
infirmities, and will succour every tried and tempted one.

* 10/04/PM

"If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus
Christ the righteous."
                                                    --1 John 2:1

   "If any man sin, we _have_ an advocate." Yes, though we sin, 
we have Him still. John does not say, "If any man sin he has
forfeited his advocate," but "we _have_ an advocate," sinners
though we are. All the sin that a believer ever did, or can be
allowed to commit, cannot destroy his interest in the Lord Jesus
Christ, as his advocate. The name here given to our Lord is
suggestive. "_Jesus_." Ah! then He is an advocate such as we
need, for Jesus is the name of one whose business and delight it
is to save. "They shall call His name Jesus, for _He shall
save_ His people from their sins." His sweetest name implies His
success. Next, it is "Jesus _Christ_"--Christos, the anointed.
This shows _His authority_ to plead. The Christ has a right to
plead, for He is the Father's own appointed advocate and elected
priest. If He were of our choosing He might fail, but if God
hath laid help upon one that is mighty, we may safely lay our
trouble where God has laid His help. He is Christ, and therefore
authorized; He is Christ, and therefore _qualified_, for the
anointing has fully fitted Him for His work. He can plead so as
to move the heart of God and prevail. What words of tenderness,
what sentences of persuasion will the anointed use when He
stands up to plead for me! One more letter of His name remains,
"Jesus Christ _the righteous_." This is not only His character
BUT His plea. It is His character, and if the Righteous One be
my advocate, then my cause is good, or He would not have
espoused it. It is His plea, for He meets the charge of
unrighteousness against me by the plea that _He_ is righteous.
He declares Himself my substitute and puts His obedience to my
account. My soul, thou hast a friend well fitted to be thine
advocate, He cannot but succeed; leave thyself entirely in His
hands.

* 10/05/PM

"He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved."
                                                    --Mark 16:16

   Mr. MacDonald asked the inhabitants of the island of St. 
Kilda how a man must be saved. An old man replied, "We shall be
saved if we repent, and forsake our sins, and turn to God."
"Yes," said a middle-aged female, "and with a true heart too."
"Ay," rejoined a third, "and with prayer"; and, added a fourth,
"It must be the prayer of the heart." "And we must be diligent
too," said a fifth, "in keeping the commandments." Thus, each
having contributed his mite, feeling that a very decent creed
had been made up, they all looked and listened for the
preacher's approbation, but they had aroused his deepest pity.
The carnal mind always maps out for itself a way in which self
can work and become great, but the Lord's way is quite the
reverse. Believing and being baptized are no matters of merit to
be gloried in--they are so simple that boasting is excluded, and
free grace bears the palm. It may be that the reader is
unsaved--what is the reason? Do you think the way of salvation
as laid down in the text to be dubious? How can that be when God
has pledged His own word for its certainty? Do you think it too
easy? Why, then, do you not attend to it? Its ease leaves those
without excuse who neglect it. To believe is simply to trust, to
depend, to rely upon Christ Jesus. To be baptized is to submit
to the ordinance which our Lord fulfilled at Jordan, to which
the converted ones submitted at Pentecost, to which the jailer
yielded obedience the very night of his conversion. The outward
sign saves not, but it sets forth to us our death, burial, and
resurrection with Jesus, and, like the Lord's Supper, is not to
be neglected. Reader, do you believe in Jesus? Then, dear
friend, dismiss your fears, you shall be saved. Are you still an
unbeliever, then remember there is but one door, and if you will
not enter by it you will perish in your sins.

* 10/06/PM

"He had married an Ethiopian woman."
                                                  --Numbers 12:1

   Strange choice of Moses, but how much more strange the choice 
of Him who is a prophet like unto Moses, and greater than he!
Our Lord, who is fair as the lily, has entered into marriage
union with one who confesses herself to be black, because the
sun has looked upon her. It is the wonder of angels that the
love of Jesus should be set upon poor, lost, guilty men. Each
believer must, when filled with a sense of Jesus' love, be also
overwhelmed with astonishment that such love should be lavished
on an object so utterly unworthy of it. Knowing as we do our
secret guiltiness, unfaithfulness, and black-heartedness, we are
dissolved in grateful admiration of the matchless freeness and
sovereignty of grace. Jesus must have found the cause of His
love in His own heart, He could not have found it in us, for it
is not there. Even since our conversion we have been black,
though grace has made us comely. Holy Rutherford said of himself
what we must each subscribe to--"His relation to me is, that I
am sick, and He is the Physician of whom I stand in need. Alas!
how often I play fast and loose with Christ! He bindeth, I
loose; He buildeth, I cast down; I quarrel with Christ, and He
agreeth with me twenty times a day!" Most tender and faithful
Husband of our souls, pursue Thy gracious work of conforming us
to Thine image, till Thou shalt present even us poor Ethiops
unto Thyself, without spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing. Moses
met with opposition because of his marriage, and both himself
and his spouse were the subjects of an evil eye. Can we wonder
if this vain world opposes Jesus and His spouse, and especially
when great sinners are converted? for this is ever the
Pharisee's ground of objection, "This man receiveth sinners."
Still is the old cause of quarrel revived, "Because he had
married an Ethiopian woman."

* 10/07/PM

"Now on whom dost thou trust?"
                                                   --Isaiah 36:5

   Reader, this is an important question. Listen to the 
Christian's answer, and see if it is yours. "On whom dost thou
trust?" "I trust," says the Christian, "in a triune God. I trust
_the Father_, believing that He has chosen me from before the
foundations of the world; I trust Him to provide for me in
providence, to teach me, to guide me, to correct me if need be,
and to bring me home to His own house where the many mansions
are. I trust _the Son_. Very God of very God is He--the man
Christ Jesus. I trust in Him to take away all my sins by His own
sacrifice, and to adorn me with His perfect righteousness. I
trust Him to be my Intercessor, to present my prayers and
desires before His Father's throne, and I trust Him to be my
Advocate at the last great day, to plead my cause, and to
justify me. I trust Him for what He is, for what He has done,
and for what He has promised yet to do. And I trust _the Holy
Spirit_--He has begun to save me from my inbred sins; I trust
Him to drive them all out; I trust Him to curb my temper, to
subdue my will, to enlighten my understanding, to check my
passions, to comfort my despondency, to help my weakness, to
illuminate my darkness; I trust Him to dwell in me as my life,
to reign in me as my King, to sanctify me wholly, spirit, soul,
and body, and then to take me up to dwell with the saints in
light for ever."

   Oh, blessed trust! To trust Him whose power will never be
exhausted, whose love will never wane, whose kindness will never
change, whose faithfulness will never fail, whose wisdom will
never be nonplussed, and whose perfect goodness can never know a
diminution! Happy art thou, reader, if this trust is thine! So
trusting, thou shalt enjoy sweet peace now, and glory hereafter,
and the foundation of thy trust shall never be removed.

* 10/08/PM

"Praying in the Holy Ghost."
                                                       --Jude 20

   Mark the grand characteristic of true prayer--"_In the Holy
Ghost_." The seed of acceptable devotion must come from heaven's
storehouse. Only the prayer which comes from God can go to God.
We must shoot the Lord's arrows back to Him. That desire which
He writes upon our heart will move His heart and bring down a
blessing, but the desires of the flesh have no power with Him.

   Praying in the Holy Ghost is praying in _fervency_. Cold 
prayers ask the Lord not to hear them. Those who do not plead
with fervency, plead not at all. As well speak of lukewarm fire
as of lukewarm prayer--it is essential that it be red hot. It is
praying _perseveringly_. The true suppliant gathers force as he
proceeds, and grows more fervent when God delays to answer. The
longer the gate is closed, the more vehemently does he use the
knocker, and the longer the angel lingers the more resolved is
he that he will never let him go without the blessing. Beautiful
in God's sight is tearful, agonizing, unconquerable importunity.
It means praying _humbly_, for the Holy Spirit never puffs us up
with pride. It is His office to convince of sin, and so to bow
us down in contrition and brokenness of spirit. We shall never
sing _Gloria in excelsis_ except we pray to God _De profundis_:
out of the depths must we cry, or we shall never behold glory in
the highest. It is _loving_ prayer. Prayer should be perfumed
with love, saturated with love--love to our fellow saints, and
love to Christ. Moreover, it must be a prayer full of _faith_. A
man prevails only as he believes. The Holy Spirit is the author
of faith, and strengthens it, so that we pray believing God's
promise. O that this blessed combination of excellent graces,
priceless and sweet as the spices of the merchant, might be
fragrant within us because the Holy Ghost is in our hearts! Most
blessed Comforter, exert Thy mighty power within us, helping our
infirmities in prayer.

* 10/09/PM

"But He answered her not a word."
                                                 --Matthew 15:23

   Genuine seekers who as yet have not obtained the blessing, 
may take comfort from the story before us. The Saviour did not
at once bestow the blessing, even though the woman had great
faith in Him. He intended to give it, but He waited awhile. "He
answered her not a word." Were not her prayers good? Never
better in the world. Was not her case needy? Sorrowfully needy.
Did she not _feel_ her need sufficiently? She felt it
overwhelmingly. Was she not earnest enough? She was intensely
so. Had she no faith? She had such a high degree of it that even
Jesus wondered, and said, "O woman, great is thy faith." See
then, although it is true that faith brings peace, yet it does
not always bring it instantaneously. There may be certain
reasons calling for the trial of faith, rather than the reward
of faith. Genuine faith may be in the soul like a hidden seed,
but as yet it may not have budded and blossomed into joy and
peace. A painful silence from the Saviour is the grievous trial
of many a seeking soul, but heavier still is the affliction of a
harsh cutting reply such as this, "It is not meet to take the
children's bread, and to cast it to dogs." Many in waiting upon
the Lord find immediate delight, but this is not the case with
all. Some, like the jailer, are in a moment turned from darkness
to light, but others are plants of slower growth. A deeper sense
of sin may be given to you instead of a sense of pardon, and in
such a case you will have need of patience to bear the heavy
blow. Ah! poor heart, though Christ beat and bruise thee, or
even slay thee, trust Him; though He should give thee an angry
word, believe in the love of His heart. Do not, I beseech thee,
give up seeking or trusting my Master, because thou hast not yet
obtained the conscious joy which thou longest for. Cast thyself
on Him, and perseveringly depend even where thou canst not
rejoicingly hope.

* 10/10/PM

"And I will deliver thee out of the hand of the wicked, and I
will redeem thee out of the hand of the terrible."
                                                --Jeremiah 15:21

   Note the glorious personality of the promise. _I_ will, _I_
will. The Lord Jehovah Himself interposes to deliver and redeem
His people. He pledges Himself personally to rescue them. His
own arm shall do it, that He may have the glory. Here is not a
word said of any effort of our own which may be needed to assist
the Lord. Neither our strength nor our weakness is taken into
the account, but the lone _I_, like the sun in the heavens,
shines out resplendent in all-sufficience. Why then do we
calculate our forces, and consult with flesh and blood to our
grievous wounding? Jehovah has power enough without borrowing
from our puny arm. Peace, ye unbelieving thoughts, be still, and
know that the Lord reigneth. Nor is there a hint concerning
secondary means and causes. The Lord says nothing of friends
and helpers: He undertakes the work alone, and feels no need of
human arms to aid Him. Vain are all our lookings around to
companions and relatives; they are broken reeds if we lean upon
them--often unwilling when able, and unable when they are
willing. Since the promise comes alone from God, it would be
well to wait only upon Him; and when we do so, our expectation
never fails us. Who are the wicked that we should fear them? The
Lord will utterly consume them; they are to be pitied rather
than feared. As for terrible ones, they are only terrors to
those who have no God to fly to, for when the Lord is on our
side, whom shall we fear? If we run into sin to please the
wicked, we have cause to be alarmed, but if we hold fast our
integrity, the rage of tyrants shall be overruled for our good.
When the fish swallowed Jonah, he found him a morsel which he
could not digest; and when the world devours the church, it is
glad to be rid of it again. In all times of fiery trial, in
patience let us possess our souls.

* 10/11/PM

"Whom He did predestinate, them He also called."
                                                   --Romans 8:30

   In the second epistle to Timothy, first chapter, and ninth 
verse, are these words--"Who hath saved us, and called us with
an _holy_ calling." Now, here is a touchstone by which we may
try our calling. It is "an holy calling, not according to our
works, but according to his own purpose and grace." This calling
forbids all trust in our own doings, and conducts us to Christ
alone for salvation, but it afterwards purges us from dead works
to serve the living and true God. As He that hath called you is
holy, so must you be holy. If you are living in sin, you are not
called, but if you are truly Christ's, you can say, "Nothing
pains me so much as sin; I desire to be rid of it; Lord, help me
to be holy." Is this the panting of thy heart? Is this the tenor
of thy life towards God, and His divine will? Again, in
Philippians, 3:13, 14, we are told of "The _high_ calling of God
in Christ Jesus." Is then your calling a high calling? Has it
ennobled your heart, and set it upon heavenly things? Has it
elevated your hopes, your tastes, your desires? Has it upraised
the constant tenor of your life, so that you spend it with God
and for God? Another test we find in Hebrews 3:1--"Partakers of
the _heavenly_ calling." Heavenly calling means a call _from_
heaven. If man alone call thee, thou art uncalled. Is thy
calling of God? Is it a call _to_ heaven as well as from heaven?
Unless thou art a stranger here, and heaven thy home, thou hast
not been called with a heavenly calling; for those who have been
so called, declare that they look for a city which hath
foundations, whose builder and maker is God, and they themselves
are strangers and pilgrims upon the earth. Is thy calling thus
holy, high, heavenly? Then, beloved, thou hast been called of
God, for such is the calling wherewith God doth call His people.


* 10/12/PM

"The Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost."
                                                    --John 14:26

   This age is peculiarly the dispensation of the Holy Spirit, 
in which Jesus cheers us, not by His personal presence, as He
shall do by-and-by, but by the indwelling and constant abiding
of the Holy Ghost, who is evermore the Comforter of the church.
It is His office to console the hearts of God's people. He
convinces of sin; He illuminates and instructs; but still the
main part of His work lies in making glad the hearts of the
renewed, in confirming the weak, and lifting up all those that
be bowed down. He does this by revealing Jesus to them. The Holy
Spirit consoles, but Christ _is the consolation_. If we may use
the figure, the Holy Spirit is the Physician, but Jesus is the
medicine. _He_ heals the wound, but it is by applying the holy
ointment of Christ's name and grace. He takes not of His own
things, but of the things of Christ. So if we give to the Holy
Spirit the Greek name of _Paraclete_, as we sometimes do, then
our heart confers on our blessed Lord Jesus the title of
_Paraclesis_. If the one be the Comforter, the other is the
Comfort. Now, with such rich provision for his need, why should
the Christian be sad and desponding? The Holy Spirit has
graciously engaged to be thy Comforter: dost thou imagine, O
thou weak and trembling believer, that He will be negligent of
His sacred trust? Canst thou suppose that He has undertaken what
He cannot or will not perform? If it be His especial work to
strengthen thee, and to comfort thee, dost thou suppose He has
forgotten His business, or that He will fail in the loving
office which He sustains towards thee? Nay, think not so hardly
of the tender and blessed Spirit whose name is "the Comforter."
He delights to give the oil of joy for mourning, and the garment
of praise for the spirit of heaviness. Trust thou in Him, and He
will surely comfort thee till the house of mourning is closed
for ever, and the marriage feast has begun.

* 10/13/PM

"Love is strong as death."
                                           --Song of Solomon 8:6

   Whose love can this be which is as mighty as the conqueror of 
monarchs, the destroyer of the human race? Would it not sound
like satire if it were applied to my poor, weak, and scarcely
living love to Jesus my Lord? I do love Him, and perhaps by His
grace, I could even die for Him, but as for my love in itself,
it can scarcely endure a scoffing jest, much less a cruel death.
Surely it is my Beloved's love which is here spoken of--the love
of Jesus, the matchless lover of souls. His love was indeed
stronger than the most terrible death, for it e